.. _contributing:

Contributing
============

Thanks for contributing to aioafero.

Getting started
---------------

1. Fork and clone the repository.
2. Install Python **3.12+** (3.12, 3.13, and 3.14 are tested in CI).
3. Sync dev dependencies:

   .. code-block:: bash

      uv sync --extra test

4. Run lint and tests before opening a PR — see :doc:`testing`.

Pull request checklist
----------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   uv run tox -e lint
   uv run tox run-parallel -p auto -o --skip-env lint
   uv run tox -e docs   # if you touched anything under docs/ or public APIs

Report bugs and feature requests on
`GitHub Issues <https://github.com/Expl0dingBanana/aioafero/issues>`_.

Code layout
-----------

* ``src/aioafero/`` — library source
* ``src/aioafero/v1/`` — v1 API bridge, auth, controllers, models
* ``tests/`` — pytest suite (mirrors ``src/`` layout)

Device and protocol logic belongs in **aioafero**, not downstream Home Assistant
integrations. Add new API behavior here first, then wrap it in
`Hubspace-Homeassistant <https://github.com/jdeath/Hubspace-Homeassistant>`_.

Documentation
-------------

Hand-written guides and autogenerated API reference live under ``docs/``. Published
site: https://aioafero.readthedocs.io/

Layout
~~~~~~

* ``docs/index.rst`` — documentation home and sidebar toctree
* ``docs/user/`` — user guide (overview, auth, bridge, examples, troubleshooting, …)
* ``docs/user/controllers/`` — per-controller pages (mostly ``autoclass`` from source)
* ``docs/api/`` — **generated on each build** by ``sphinx-apidoc``; do not edit by hand
* ``CHANGELOG.rst`` — user-visible changes; included in the docs via ``docs/changelog.rst``

Add a new user-guide page to the ``.. toctree::`` under **User guide** in
``docs/index.rst``.

When to update docs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Update documentation in the same PR when you change behavior that users or integrators
rely on:

* **Public API** (bridge/auth signatures, controller methods, errors) — update the
  relevant ``docs/user/`` page and add a ``CHANGELOG.rst`` entry for breaking or
  notable changes.
* **New user-guide topic** — add ``docs/user/<topic>.rst`` and link it from the toctree
  and related pages.
* **Controller-only internals** — autodoc may be enough; skip narrative docs unless the
  public surface changed.

Diagrams in the user guide use `Mermaid <https://mermaid.js.org/>`_ (``.. mermaid::``
blocks). Requires the ``docs`` optional extra (``sphinxcontrib-mermaid``).

Build and preview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

CI and the PR checklist use ``tox -e docs`` (warnings are errors). From a dev checkout
with the **test** extra installed:

.. code-block:: bash

   uv sync --extra test
   uv run tox -e docs

``tox`` runs ``sphinx-build`` in an isolated env with the ``docs`` extra — you do not
need ``uv sync --extra docs`` for that path.

For faster iteration while editing RST files, sync **docs** and call Sphinx directly:

.. code-block:: bash

   uv sync --extra docs
   uv run sphinx-build -W -b html docs docs/_build/html

Hosted docs are published on `Read the Docs <https://aioafero.readthedocs.io/>`_.
Read the Docs builds automatically when changes land on the default branch (GitHub
webhook). Pull requests run ``tox -e docs`` in CI as a build check only.

One-time RTD setup: import the GitHub repo on `readthedocs.org
<https://readthedocs.org/>`_ with project slug ``aioafero`` and confirm
``.readthedocs.yaml`` when prompted.
